
27:3 Though an host should encamp against me, my heart shall not fear:
though war should rise against me, in this will I be confident.

27:4 One thing have I desired of the LORD, that will I seek after;
that I may dwell in the house of the LORD all the days of my life, to
behold the beauty of the LORD, and to enquire in his temple.

27:5 For in the time of trouble he shall hide me in his pavilion: in
the secret of his tabernacle shall he hide me; he shall set me up upon
a rock.

27:6 And now shall mine head be lifted up above mine enemies round
about me: therefore will I offer in his tabernacle sacrifices of joy;
I will sing, yea, I will sing praises unto the LORD.

27:7 Hear, O LORD, when I cry with my voice: have mercy also upon me,
and answer me.

27:8 When thou saidst, Seek ye my face; my heart said unto thee, Thy
face, LORD, will I seek.

27:9 Hide not thy face far from me; put not thy servant away in anger:
thou hast been my help; leave me not, neither forsake me, O God of my
salvation.

27:10 When my father and my mother forsake me, then the LORD will take
me up.

27:11 Teach me thy way, O LORD, and lead me in a plain path, because
of mine enemies.

27:12 Deliver me not over unto the will of mine enemies: for false
witnesses are risen up against me, and such as breathe out cruelty.

27:13 I had fainted, unless I had believed to see the goodness of the
LORD in the land of the living.

27:14 Wait on the LORD: be of good courage, and he shall strengthen
thine heart: wait, I say, on the LORD.



28:1 Unto thee will I cry, O LORD my rock; be not silent to me: lest,
if thou be silent to me, I become like them that go down into the pit.

28:2 Hear the voice of my supplications, when I cry unto thee, when I
lift up my hands toward thy holy oracle.

28:3 Draw me not away with the wicked, and with the workers of
iniquity, which speak peace to their neighbours, but mischief is in
their hearts.

28:4 Give them according to their deeds, and according to the
wickedness of their endeavours: give them after the work of their
hands; render to them their desert.

28:5 Because they regard not the works of the LORD, nor the operation
of his hands, he shall destroy them, and not build them up.

28:6 Blessed be the LORD, because he hath heard the voice of my
supplications.

28:7 The LORD is my strength and my shield; my heart trusted in him,
and I am helped: therefore my heart greatly rejoiceth; and with my
song will I praise him.

28:8 The LORD is their strength, and he is the saving strength of his
anointed.

28:9 Save thy people, and bless thine inheritance: feed them also, and
lift them up for ever.



29:1 Give unto the LORD, O ye mighty, give unto the LORD glory and
strength.

29:2 Give unto the LORD the glory due unto his name; worship the LORD
in the beauty of holiness.

29:3 The voice of the LORD is upon the waters: the God of glory
thundereth: the LORD is upon many waters.

29:4 The voice of the LORD is powerful; the voice of the LORD is full
of majesty.

29:5 The voice of the LORD breaketh the cedars; yea, the LORD breaketh
the cedars of Lebanon.

29:6 He maketh them also to skip like a calf; Lebanon and Sirion like
a young unicorn.

29:7 The voice of the LORD divideth the flames of fire.

29:8 The voice of the LORD shaketh the wilderness; the LORD shaketh
the wilderness of Kadesh.

29:9 The voice of the LORD maketh the hinds to calve, and discovereth
the forests: and in his temple doth every one speak of his glory.

29:10 The LORD sitteth upon the flood; yea, the LORD sitteth King for
ever.

29:11 The LORD will give strength unto his people; the LORD will bless
his people with peace.



30:1 I will extol thee, O LORD; for thou hast lifted me up, and hast
not made my foes to rejoice over me.

30:2 O LORD my God, I cried unto thee, and thou hast healed me.

30:3 O LORD, thou hast brought up my soul from the grave: thou hast
kept me alive, that I should not go down to the pit.

30:4 Sing unto the LORD, O ye saints of his, and give thanks at the
remembrance of his holiness.

30:5 For his anger endureth but a moment; in his favour is life:
weeping may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning.

30:6 And in my prosperity I said, I shall never be moved.

30:7 LORD, by thy favour thou hast made my mountain to stand strong:
thou didst hide thy face, and I was troubled.

30:8 I cried to thee, O LORD; and unto the LORD I made supplication.

30:9 What profit is there in my blood, when I go down to the pit?
Shall the dust praise thee? shall it declare thy truth?

30:10 Hear, O LORD, and have mercy upon me: LORD, be thou my helper.

30:11 Thou hast turned for me my mourning into dancing: thou hast put
off my sackcloth, and girded me with gladness;

30:12 To the end that my glory may sing praise to thee, and not be
silent.

O LORD my God, I will give thanks unto thee for ever.



31:1 In thee, O LORD, do I put my trust; let me never be ashamed:
deliver me in thy righteousness.

31:2 Bow down thine ear to me; deliver me speedily: be thou my strong
rock, for an house of defence to save me.

31:3 For thou art my rock and my fortress; therefore for thy name's
sake lead me, and guide me.

31:4 Pull me out of the net that they have laid privily for me: for
thou art my strength.

31:5 Into thine hand I commit my spirit: thou hast redeemed me, O LORD
God of truth.

31:6 I have hated them that regard lying vanities: but I trust in the
LORD.

31:7 I will be glad and rejoice in thy mercy: for thou hast considered
my trouble; thou hast known my soul in adversities;

31:8 And hast not shut me up into the hand of the enemy: thou hast set
my feet in a large room.

31:9 Have mercy upon me, O LORD, for I am in trouble: mine eye is
consumed with grief, yea, my soul and my belly.

31:10 For my life is spent with grief, and my years with sighing: my
strength faileth because of mine iniquity, and my bones are consumed.

31:11 I was a reproach among all mine enemies, but especially among my
neighbours, and a fear to mine acquaintance: they that did see me
without fled from me.

31:12 I am forgotten as a dead man out of mind: I am like a broken
vessel.

31:13 For I have heard the slander of many: fear was on every side:
while they took counsel together against me, they devised to take away
my life.

31:14 But I trusted in thee, O LORD: I said, Thou art my God.

31:15 My times are in thy hand: deliver me from the hand of mine
enemies, and from them that persecute me.

31:16 Make thy face to shine upon thy servant: save me for thy
mercies' sake.

31:17 Let me not be ashamed, O LORD; for I have called upon thee: let
the wicked be ashamed, and let them be silent in the grave.

31:18 Let the lying lips be put to silence; which speak grievous
things proudly and contemptuously against the righteous.

31:19 Oh how great is thy goodness, which thou hast laid up for them
that fear thee; which thou hast wrought for them that trust in thee
before the sons of men!

31:20 Thou shalt hide them in the secret of thy presence from the
pride of man: thou shalt keep them secretly in a pavilion from the
strife of tongues.

31:21 Blessed be the LORD: for he hath shewed me his marvellous
kindness in a strong city.

31:22 For I said in my haste, I am cut off from before thine eyes:
nevertheless thou heardest the voice of my supplications when I cried
unto thee.

31:23 O love the LORD, all ye his saints: for the LORD preserveth the
faithful, and plentifully rewardeth the proud doer.

31:24 Be of good courage, and he shall strengthen your heart, all ye
that hope in the LORD.



32:1 Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is
covered.

32:2 Blessed is the man unto whom the LORD imputeth not iniquity, and
in whose spirit there is no guile.

32:3 When I kept silence, my bones waxed old through my roaring all
the day long.

32:4 For day and night thy hand was heavy upon me: my moisture is
turned into the drought of summer. Selah.

32:5 I acknowledge my sin unto thee, and mine iniquity have I not hid.
I said, I will confess my transgressions unto the LORD; and thou
forgavest the iniquity of my sin. Selah.

32:6 For this shall every one that is godly pray unto thee in a time
when thou mayest be found: surely in the floods of great waters they
shall not come nigh unto him.

32:7 Thou art my hiding place; thou shalt preserve me from trouble;
thou shalt compass me about with songs of deliverance. Selah.

32:8 I will instruct thee and teach thee in the way which thou shalt
go: I will guide thee with mine eye.

32:9 Be ye not as the horse, or as the mule, which have no
understanding: whose mouth must be held in with bit and bridle, lest
they come near unto thee.

32:10 Many sorrows shall be to the wicked: but he that trusteth in the
LORD, mercy shall compass him about.

32:11 Be glad in the LORD, and rejoice, ye righteous: and shout for
joy, all ye that are upright in heart.



33:1 Rejoice in the LORD, O ye righteous: for praise is comely for the
upright.

33:2 Praise the LORD with harp: sing unto him with the psaltery and an
instrument of ten strings.

33:3 Sing unto him a new song; play skilfully with a loud noise.

33:4 For the word of the LORD is right; and all his works are done in
truth.

33:5 He loveth righteousness and judgment: the earth is full of the
goodness of the LORD.

33:6 By the word of the LORD were the heavens made; and all the host
of them by the breath of his mouth.

33:7 He gathereth the waters of the sea together as an heap: he layeth
up the depth in storehouses.

33:8 Let all the earth fear the LORD: let all the inhabitants of the
world stand in awe of him.

33:9 For he spake, and it was done; he commanded, and it stood fast.

33:10 The LORD bringeth the counsel of the heathen to nought: he
maketh the devices of the people of none effect.

33:11 The counsel of the LORD standeth for ever, the thoughts of his
heart to all generations.

33:12 Blessed is the nation whose God is the LORD; and the people whom
he hath chosen for his own inheritance.

33:13 The LORD looketh from heaven; he beholdeth all the sons of men.

33:14 From the place of his habitation he looketh upon all the
inhabitants of the earth.

33:15 He fashioneth their hearts alike; he considereth all their
works.

33:16 There is no king saved by the multitude of an host: a mighty man
is not delivered by much strength.

33:17 An horse is a vain thing for safety: neither shall he deliver
any by his great strength.

33:18 Behold, the eye of the LORD is upon them that fear him, upon
them that hope in his mercy;

33:19 To deliver their soul from death, and to keep them alive in
famine.

33:20 Our soul waiteth for the LORD: he is our help and our shield.

33:21 For our heart shall rejoice in him, because we have trusted in
his holy name.

33:22 Let thy mercy, O LORD, be upon us, according as we hope in thee.



34:1 I will bless the LORD at all times: his praise shall continually
be in my mouth.

34:2 My soul shall make her boast in the LORD: the humble shall hear
thereof, and be glad.

34:3 O magnify the LORD with me, and let us exalt his name together.

34:4 I sought the LORD, and he heard me, and delivered me from all my
fears.

34:5 They looked unto him, and were lightened: and their faces were
not ashamed.

34:6 This poor man cried, and the LORD heard him, and saved him out of
all his troubles.

34:7 The angel of the LORD encampeth round about them that fear him,
and delivereth them.

34:8 O taste and see that the LORD is good: blessed is the man that
trusteth in him.

34:9 O fear the LORD, ye his saints: for there is no want to them that
fear him.

34:10 The young lions do lack, and suffer hunger: but they that seek
the LORD shall not want any good thing.

34:11 Come, ye children, hearken unto me: I will teach you the fear of
the LORD.

34:12 What man is he that desireth life, and loveth many days, that he
may see good?

34:13 Keep thy tongue from evil, and thy lips from speaking guile.

34:14 Depart from evil, and do good; seek peace, and pursue it.

34:15 The eyes of the LORD are upon the righteous, and his ears are
open unto their cry.

34:16 The face of the LORD is against them that do evil, to cut off
the remembrance of them from the earth.

34:17 The righteous cry, and the LORD heareth, and delivereth them out
of all their troubles.

34:18 The LORD is nigh unto them that are of a broken heart; and
saveth such as be of a contrite spirit.

34:19 Many are the afflictions of the righteous: but the LORD
delivereth him out of them all.

34:20 He keepeth all his bones: not one of them is broken.

34:21 Evil shall slay the wicked: and they that hate the righteous
shall be desolate.

34:22 The LORD redeemeth the soul of his servants: and none of them
that trust in him shall be desolate.



35:1 Plead my cause, O LORD, with them that strive with me: fight
against them that fight against me.

35:2 Take hold of shield and buckler, and stand up for mine help.

35:3 Draw out also the spear, and stop the way against them that
persecute me: say unto my soul, I am thy salvation.

35:4 Let them be confounded and put to shame that seek after my soul:
let them be turned back and brought to confusion that devise my hurt.

35:5 Let them be as chaff before the wind: and let the angel of the
LORD chase them.

35:6 Let their way be dark and slippery: and let the angel of the LORD
persecute them.

35:7 For without cause have they hid for me their net in a pit, which
without cause they have digged for my soul.

35:8 Let destruction come upon him at unawares; and let his net that
he hath hid catch himself: into that very destruction let him fall.

35:9 And my soul shall be joyful in the LORD: it shall rejoice in his
salvation.

35:10 All my bones shall say, LORD, who is like unto thee, which
deliverest the poor from him that is too strong for him, yea, the poor
and the needy from him that spoileth him?

35:11 False witnesses did rise up; they laid to my charge things that
I knew not.

35:12 They rewarded me evil for good to the spoiling of my soul.

35:13 But as for me, when they were sick, my clothing was sackcloth: I
humbled my soul with fasting; and my prayer returned into mine own
bosom.

35:14 I behaved myself as though he had been my friend or brother: I
bowed down heavily, as one that mourneth for his mother.

35:15 But in mine adversity they rejoiced, and gathered themselves
together: yea, the abjects gathered themselves together against me,
and I knew it not; they did tear me, and ceased not:

35:16 With hypocritical mockers in feasts, they gnashed upon me with
their teeth.

35:17 Lord, how long wilt thou look on? rescue my soul from their
destructions, my darling from the lions.

35:18 I will give thee thanks in the great congregation: I will praise
thee among much people.

35:19 Let not them that are mine enemies wrongfully rejoice over me:
neither let them wink with the eye that hate me without a cause.

35:20 For they speak not peace: but they devise deceitful matters
against them that are quiet in the land.

35:21 Yea, they opened their mouth wide against me, and said, Aha,
aha, our eye hath seen it.

35:22 This thou hast seen, O LORD: keep not silence: O Lord, be not
far from me.

35:23 Stir up thyself, and awake to my judgment, even unto my cause,
my God and my Lord.

35:24 Judge me, O LORD my God, according to thy righteousness; and let
them not rejoice over me.

35:25 Let them not say in their hearts, Ah, so would we have it: let
them not say, We have swallowed him up.

35:26 Let them be ashamed and brought to confusion together that
rejoice at mine hurt: let them be clothed with shame and dishonour
that magnify themselves against me.

35:27 Let them shout for joy, and be glad, that favour my righteous
cause: yea, let them say continually, Let the LORD be magnified, which
hath pleasure in the prosperity of his servant.

35:28 And my tongue shall speak of thy righteousness and of thy praise
all the day long.



36:1 The transgression of the wicked saith within my heart, that there
is no fear of God before his eyes.

36:2 For he flattereth himself in his own eyes, until his iniquity be
found to be hateful.

36:3 The words of his mouth are iniquity and deceit: he hath left off
to be wise, and to do good.

36:4 He deviseth mischief upon his bed; he setteth himself in a way
that is not good; he abhorreth not evil.

36:5 Thy mercy, O LORD, is in the heavens; and thy faithfulness
reacheth unto the clouds.

36:6 Thy righteousness is like the great mountains; thy judgments are
a great deep: O LORD, thou preservest man and beast.

36:7 How excellent is thy lovingkindness, O God! therefore the
children of men put their trust under the shadow of thy wings.

36:8 They shall be abundantly satisfied with the fatness of thy house;
and thou shalt make them drink of the river of thy pleasures.

36:9 For with thee is the fountain of life: in thy light shall we see
light.

36:10 O continue thy lovingkindness unto them that know thee; and thy
righteousness to the upright in heart.

36:11 Let not the foot of pride come against me, and let not the hand
of the wicked remove me.

36:12 There are the workers of iniquity fallen: they are cast down,
and shall not be able to rise.



37:1 Fret not thyself because of evildoers, neither be thou envious
against the workers of iniquity.

37:2 For they shall soon be cut down like the grass, and wither as the
green herb.

37:3 Trust in the LORD, and do good; so shalt thou dwell in the land,
and verily thou shalt be fed.

37:4 Delight thyself also in the LORD: and he shall give thee the
desires of thine heart.

37:5 Commit thy way unto the LORD; trust also in him; and he shall
bring it to pass.

37:6 And he shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thy
judgment as the noonday.

37:7 Rest in the LORD, and wait patiently for him: fret not thyself
because of him who prospereth in his way, because of the man who
bringeth wicked devices to pass.

37:8 Cease from anger, and forsake wrath: fret not thyself in any wise
to do evil.

37:9 For evildoers shall be cut off: but those that wait upon the
LORD, they shall inherit the earth.

37:10 For yet a little while, and the wicked shall not be: yea, thou
shalt diligently consider his place, and it shall not be.

37:11 But the meek shall inherit the earth; and shall delight
themselves in the abundance of peace.

37:12 The wicked plotteth against the just, and gnasheth upon him with
his teeth.

37:13 The LORD shall laugh at him: for he seeth that his day is
coming.

37:14 The wicked have drawn out the sword, and have bent their bow, to
cast down the poor and needy, and to slay such as be of upright
conversation.

37:15 Their sword shall enter into their own heart, and their bows
shall be broken.

37:16 A little that a righteous man hath is better than the riches of
many wicked.

37:17 For the arms of the wicked shall be broken: but the LORD
upholdeth the righteous.

37:18 The LORD knoweth the days of the upright: and their inheritance
shall be for ever.

37:19 They shall not be ashamed in the evil time: and in the days of
famine they shall be satisfied.

37:20 But the wicked shall perish, and the enemies of the LORD shall
be as the fat of lambs: they shall consume; into smoke shall they
consume away.

37:21 The wicked borroweth, and payeth not again: but the righteous
sheweth mercy, and giveth.

37:22 For such as be blessed of him shall inherit the earth; and they
that be cursed of him shall be cut off.

37:23 The steps of a good man are ordered by the LORD: and he
delighteth in his way.

37:24 Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down: for the LORD
upholdeth him with his hand.

37:25 I have been young, and now am old; yet have I not seen the
righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread.

37:26 He is ever merciful, and lendeth; and his seed is blessed.

37:27 Depart from evil, and do good; and dwell for evermore.

37:28 For the LORD loveth judgment, and forsaketh not his saints; they
are preserved for ever: but the seed of the wicked shall be cut off.

37:29 The righteous shall inherit the land, and dwell therein for
ever.

37:30 The mouth of the righteous speaketh wisdom, and his tongue
talketh of judgment.

37:31 The law of his God is in his heart; none of his steps shall
slide.

37:32 The wicked watcheth the righteous, and seeketh to slay him.

37:33 The LORD will not leave him in his hand, nor condemn him when he
is judged.

37:34 Wait on the LORD, and keep his way, and he shall exalt thee to
inherit the land: when the wicked are cut off, thou shalt see it.

37:35 I have seen the wicked in great power, and spreading himself
like a green bay tree.

37:36 Yet he passed away, and, lo, he was not: yea, I sought him, but
he could not be found.

37:37 Mark the perfect man, and behold the upright: for the end of
that man is peace.

37:38 But the transgressors shall be destroyed together: the end of
the wicked shall be cut off.

37:39 But the salvation of the righteous is of the LORD: he is their
strength in the time of trouble.

37:40 And the LORD shall help them, and deliver them: he shall deliver
them from the wicked, and save them, because they trust in him.



38:1 O lord, rebuke me not in thy wrath: neither chasten me in thy hot
displeasure.

38:2 For thine arrows stick fast in me, and thy hand presseth me sore.

38:3 There is no soundness in my flesh because of thine anger; neither
is there any rest in my bones because of my sin.

38:4 For mine iniquities are gone over mine head: as an heavy burden
they are too heavy for me.

38:5 My wounds stink and are corrupt because of my foolishness.

38:6 I am troubled; I am bowed down greatly; I go mourning all the day
long.

38:7 For my loins are filled with a loathsome disease: and there is no
soundness in my flesh.

38:8 I am feeble and sore broken: I have roared by reason of the
disquietness of my heart.

38:9 Lord, all my desire is before thee; and my groaning is not hid
from thee.

38:10 My heart panteth, my strength faileth me: as for the light of
mine eyes, it also is gone from me.

38:11 My lovers and my friends stand aloof from my sore; and my
kinsmen stand afar off.

38:12 They also that seek after my life lay snares for me: and they
that seek my hurt speak mischievous things, and imagine deceits all
the day long.

38:13 But I, as a deaf man, heard not; and I was as a dumb man that
openeth not his mouth.

38:14 Thus I was as a man that heareth not, and in whose mouth are no
reproofs.

38:15 For in thee, O LORD, do I hope: thou wilt hear, O Lord my God.

38:16 For I said, Hear me, lest otherwise they should rejoice over me:
when my foot slippeth, they magnify themselves against me.

38:17 For I am ready to halt, and my sorrow is continually before me.

38:18 For I will declare mine iniquity; I will be sorry for my sin.

38:19 But mine enemies are lively, and they are strong: and they that
hate me wrongfully are multiplied.

38:20 They also that render evil for good are mine adversaries;
because I follow the thing that good is.

38:21 Forsake me not, O LORD: O my God, be not far from me.

38:22 Make haste to help me, O Lord my salvation.



39:1 I said, I will take heed to my ways, that I sin not with my
tongue: I will keep my mouth with a bridle, while the wicked is before
me.

39:2 I was dumb with silence, I held my peace, even from good; and my
sorrow was stirred.

39:3 My heart was hot within me, while I was musing the fire burned:
then spake I with my tongue,

39:4 LORD, make me to know mine end, and the measure of my days, what
it is: that I may know how frail I am.

39:5 Behold, thou hast made my days as an handbreadth; and mine age is
as nothing before thee: verily every man at his best state is
altogether vanity.

Selah.

39:6 Surely every man walketh in a vain shew: surely they are
disquieted in vain: he heapeth up riches, and knoweth not who shall
gather them.

39:7 And now, Lord, what wait I for? my hope is in thee.

39:8 Deliver me from all my transgressions: make me not the reproach
of the foolish.

39:9 I was dumb, I opened not my mouth; because thou didst it.

39:10 Remove thy stroke away from me: I am consumed by the blow of
thine hand.

39:11 When thou with rebukes dost correct man for iniquity, thou
makest his beauty to consume away like a moth: surely every man is
vanity. Selah.

39:12 Hear my prayer, O LORD, and give ear unto my cry; hold not thy
peace at my tears: for I am a stranger with thee, and a sojourner, as
all my fathers were.

39:13 O spare me, that I may recover strength, before I go hence, and
be no more.



40:1 I waited patiently for the LORD; and he inclined unto me, and
heard my cry.

40:2 He brought me up also out of an horrible pit, out of the miry
clay, and set my feet upon a rock, and established my goings.

40:3 And he hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God:
many shall see it, and fear, and shall trust in the LORD.

40:4 Blessed is that man that maketh the LORD his trust, and
respecteth not the proud, nor such as turn aside to lies.

40:5 Many, O LORD my God, are thy wonderful works which thou hast
done, and thy thoughts which are to us-ward: they cannot be reckoned
up in order unto thee: if I would declare and speak of them, they are
more than can be numbered.

40:6 Sacrifice and offering thou didst not desire; mine ears hast thou
opened: burnt offering and sin offering hast thou not required.

40:7 Then said I, Lo, I come: in the volume of the book it is written
of me,

40:8 I delight to do thy will, O my God: yea, thy law is within my
heart.

40:9 I have preached righteousness in the great congregation: lo, I
have not refrained my lips, O LORD, thou knowest.

40:10 I have not hid thy righteousness within my heart; I have
declared thy faithfulness and thy salvation: I have not concealed thy
lovingkindness and thy truth from the great congregation.

40:11 Withhold not thou thy tender mercies from me, O LORD: let thy
lovingkindness and thy truth continually preserve me.

40:12 For innumerable evils have compassed me about: mine iniquities
have taken hold upon me, so that I am not able to look up; they are
more than the hairs of mine head: therefore my heart faileth me.

40:13 Be pleased, O LORD, to deliver me: O LORD, make haste to help
me.

40:14 Let them be ashamed and confounded together that seek after my
soul to destroy it; let them be driven backward and put to shame that
wish me evil.

40:15 Let them be desolate for a reward of their shame that say unto
me, Aha, aha.

40:16 Let all those that seek thee rejoice and be glad in thee: let
such as love thy salvation say continually, The LORD be magnified.

40:17 But I am poor and needy; yet the Lord thinketh upon me: thou art
my help and my deliverer; make no tarrying, O my God.



41:1 Blessed is he that considereth the poor: the LORD will deliver
him in time of trouble.

41:2 The LORD will preserve him, and keep him alive; and he shall be
blessed upon the earth: and thou wilt not deliver him unto the will of
his enemies.

41:3 The LORD will strengthen him upon the bed of languishing: thou
wilt make all his bed in his sickness.

41:4 I said, LORD, be merciful unto me: heal my soul; for I have
sinned against thee.

41:5 Mine enemies speak evil of me, When shall he die, and his name
perish?

41:6 And if he come to see me, he speaketh vanity: his heart gathereth
iniquity to itself; when he goeth abroad, he telleth it.

41:7 All that hate me whisper together against me: against me do they
devise my hurt.

41:8 An evil disease, say they, cleaveth fast unto him: and now that
he lieth he shall rise up no more.

41:9 Yea, mine own familiar friend, in whom I trusted, which did eat
of my bread, hath lifted up his heel against me.

41:10 But thou, O LORD, be merciful unto me, and raise me up, that I
may requite them.

41:11 By this I know that thou favourest me, because mine enemy doth
not triumph over me.

41:12 And as for me, thou upholdest me in mine integrity, and settest
me before thy face for ever.

41:13 Blessed be the LORD God of Israel from everlasting, and to
everlasting. Amen, and Amen.



42:1 As the hart panteth after the water brooks, so panteth my soul
after thee, O God.

42:2 My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God: when shall I come
and appear before God?

42:3 My tears have been my meat day and night, while they continually
say unto me, Where is thy God?

42:4 When I remember these things, I pour out my soul in me: for I had
gone with the multitude, I went with them to the house of God, with
the voice of joy and praise, with a multitude that kept holyday.

42:5 Why art thou cast down, O my soul? and why art thou disquieted in
me?  hope thou in God: for I shall yet praise him for the help of his
countenance.

42:6 O my God, my soul is cast down within me: therefore will I
remember thee from the land of Jordan, and of the Hermonites, from the
hill Mizar.

42:7 Deep calleth unto deep at the noise of thy waterspouts: all thy
waves and thy billows are gone over me.

42:8 Yet the LORD will command his lovingkindness in the day time, and
in the night his song shall be with me, and my prayer unto the God of
my life.

42:9 I will say unto God my rock, Why hast thou forgotten me? why go I
mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?

42:10 As with a sword in my bones, mine enemies reproach me; while
they say daily unto me, Where is thy God?

42:11 Why art thou cast down, O my soul? and why art thou disquieted
within me? hope thou in God: for I shall yet praise him, who is the
health of my countenance, and my God.



43:1 Judge me, O God, and plead my cause against an ungodly nation: O
deliver me from the deceitful and unjust man.

43:2 For thou art the God of my strength: why dost thou cast me off?
why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?

43:3 O send out thy light and thy truth: let them lead me; let them
bring me unto thy holy hill, and to thy tabernacles.

43:4 Then will I go unto the altar of God, unto God my exceeding joy:
yea, upon the harp will I praise thee, O God my God.

43:5 Why art thou cast down, O my soul? and why art thou disquieted
within me? hope in God: for I shall yet praise him, who is the health
of my countenance, and my God.



44:1 We have heard with our ears, O God, our fathers have told us,
what work thou didst in their days, in the times of old.

44:2 How thou didst drive out the heathen with thy hand, and plantedst
them; how thou didst afflict the people, and cast them out.

44:3 For they got not the land in possession by their own sword,
neither did their own arm save them: but thy right hand, and thine
arm, and the light of thy countenance, because thou hadst a favour
unto them.

44:4 Thou art my King, O God: command deliverances for Jacob.

44:5 Through thee will we push down our enemies: through thy name will
we tread them under that rise up against us.

44:6 For I will not trust in my bow, neither shall my sword save me.

44:7 But thou hast saved us from our enemies, and hast put them to
shame that hated us.

44:8 In God we boast all the day long, and praise thy name for ever.

Selah.

44:9 But thou hast cast off, and put us to shame; and goest not forth
with our armies.

44:10 Thou makest us to turn back from the enemy: and they which hate
us spoil for themselves.

44:11 Thou hast given us like sheep appointed for meat; and hast
scattered us among the heathen.

44:12 Thou sellest thy people for nought, and dost not increase thy
wealth by their price.

44:13 Thou makest us a reproach to our neighbours, a scorn and a
derision to them that are round about us.

44:14 Thou makest us a byword among the heathen, a shaking of the head
among the people.

44:15 My confusion is continually before me, and the shame of my face
hath covered me,

44:16 For the voice of him that reproacheth and blasphemeth; by reason
of the enemy and avenger.

44:17 All this is come upon us; yet have we not forgotten thee,
neither have we dealt falsely in thy covenant.

44:18 Our heart is not turned back, neither have our steps declined
from thy way;

44:19 Though thou hast sore broken us in the place of dragons, and
covered us with the shadow of death.

44:20 If we have forgotten the name of our God, or stretched out our
hands to a strange god;

44:21 Shall not God search this out? for he knoweth the secrets of the
heart.

44:22 Yea, for thy sake are we killed all the day long; we are counted
as sheep for the slaughter.

44:23 Awake, why sleepest thou, O Lord? arise, cast us not off for
ever.

44:24 Wherefore hidest thou thy face, and forgettest our affliction
and our oppression?

44:25 For our soul is bowed down to the dust: our belly cleaveth unto
the earth.

44:26 Arise for our help, and redeem us for thy mercies' sake.



45:1 My heart is inditing a good matter: I speak of the things which I
have made touching the king: my tongue is the pen of a ready writer.

45:2 Thou art fairer than the children of men: grace is poured into
thy lips: therefore God hath blessed thee for ever.

45:3 Gird thy sword upon thy thigh, O most mighty, with thy glory and
thy majesty.

45:4 And in thy majesty ride prosperously because of truth and
meekness and righteousness; and thy right hand shall teach thee
terrible things.

45:5 Thine arrows are sharp in the heart of the king's enemies;
whereby the people fall under thee.

45:6 Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever: the sceptre of thy
