kingdom is a right sceptre.

45:7 Thou lovest righteousness, and hatest wickedness: therefore God,
thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy
fellows.

45:8 All thy garments smell of myrrh, and aloes, and cassia, out of
the ivory palaces, whereby they have made thee glad.

45:9 Kings' daughters were among thy honourable women: upon thy right
hand did stand the queen in gold of Ophir.

45:10 Hearken, O daughter, and consider, and incline thine ear; forget
also thine own people, and thy father's house;

45:11 So shall the king greatly desire thy beauty: for he is thy Lord;
and worship thou him.

45:12 And the daughter of Tyre shall be there with a gift; even the
rich among the people shall intreat thy favour.

45:13 The king's daughter is all glorious within: her clothing is of
wrought gold.

45:14 She shall be brought unto the king in raiment of needlework: the
virgins her companions that follow her shall be brought unto thee.

45:15 With gladness and rejoicing shall they be brought: they shall
enter into the king's palace.

45:16 Instead of thy fathers shall be thy children, whom thou mayest
make princes in all the earth.

45:17 I will make thy name to be remembered in all generations:
therefore shall the people praise thee for ever and ever.



46:1 God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble.

46:2 Therefore will not we fear, though the earth be removed, and
though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea;

46:3 Though the waters thereof roar and be troubled, though the
mountains shake with the swelling thereof. Selah.

46:4 There is a river, the streams whereof shall make glad the city of
God, the holy place of the tabernacles of the most High.

46:5 God is in the midst of her; she shall not be moved: God shall
help her, and that right early.

46:6 The heathen raged, the kingdoms were moved: he uttered his voice,
the earth melted.

46:7 The LORD of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our refuge.
Selah.

46:8 Come, behold the works of the LORD, what desolations he hath made
in the earth.

46:9 He maketh wars to cease unto the end of the earth; he breaketh
the bow, and cutteth the spear in sunder; he burneth the chariot in
the fire.

46:10 Be still, and know that I am God: I will be exalted among the
heathen, I will be exalted in the earth.

46:11 The LORD of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our refuge.
Selah.



47:1 O clap your hands, all ye people; shout unto God with the voice
of triumph.

47:2 For the LORD most high is terrible; he is a great King over all
the earth.

47:3 He shall subdue the people under us, and the nations under our
feet.

47:4 He shall choose our inheritance for us, the excellency of Jacob
whom he loved. Selah.

47:5 God is gone up with a shout, the LORD with the sound of a
trumpet.

47:6 Sing praises to God, sing praises: sing praises unto our King,
sing praises.

47:7 For God is the King of all the earth: sing ye praises with
understanding.

47:8 God reigneth over the heathen: God sitteth upon the throne of his
holiness.

47:9 The princes of the people are gathered together, even the people
of the God of Abraham: for the shields of the earth belong unto God:
he is greatly exalted.



48:1 Great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised in the city of our
God, in the mountain of his holiness.

48:2 Beautiful for situation, the joy of the whole earth, is mount
Zion, on the sides of the north, the city of the great King.

48:3 God is known in her palaces for a refuge.

48:4 For, lo, the kings were assembled, they passed by together.

48:5 They saw it, and so they marvelled; they were troubled, and
hasted away.

48:6 Fear took hold upon them there, and pain, as of a woman in
travail.

48:7 Thou breakest the ships of Tarshish with an east wind.

48:8 As we have heard, so have we seen in the city of the LORD of
hosts, in the city of our God: God will establish it for ever. Selah.

48:9 We have thought of thy lovingkindness, O God, in the midst of thy
temple.

48:10 According to thy name, O God, so is thy praise unto the ends of
the earth: thy right hand is full of righteousness.

48:11 Let mount Zion rejoice, let the daughters of Judah be glad,
because of thy judgments.

48:12 Walk about Zion, and go round about her: tell the towers
thereof.

48:13 Mark ye well her bulwarks, consider her palaces; that ye may
tell it to the generation following.

48:14 For this God is our God for ever and ever: he will be our guide
even unto death.



49:1 Hear this, all ye people; give ear, all ye inhabitants of the
world:

49:2 Both low and high, rich and poor, together.

49:3 My mouth shall speak of wisdom; and the meditation of my heart
shall be of understanding.

49:4 I will incline mine ear to a parable: I will open my dark saying
upon the harp.

49:5 Wherefore should I fear in the days of evil, when the iniquity of
my heels shall compass me about?

49:6 They that trust in their wealth, and boast themselves in the
multitude of their riches;

49:7 None of them can by any means redeem his brother, nor give to God
a ransom for him:

49:8 (For the redemption of their soul is precious, and it ceaseth for
ever:)

49:9 That he should still live for ever, and not see corruption.

49:10 For he seeth that wise men die, likewise the fool and the
brutish person perish, and leave their wealth to others.

49:11 Their inward thought is, that their houses shall continue for
ever, and their dwelling places to all generations; they call their
lands after their own names.

49:12 Nevertheless man being in honour abideth not: he is like the
beasts that perish.

49:13 This their way is their folly: yet their posterity approve their
sayings. Selah.

49:14 Like sheep they are laid in the grave; death shall feed on them;
and the upright shall have dominion over them in the morning; and
their beauty shall consume in the grave from their dwelling.

49:15 But God will redeem my soul from the power of the grave: for he
shall receive me. Selah.

49:16 Be not thou afraid when one is made rich, when the glory of his
house is increased;

49:17 For when he dieth he shall carry nothing away: his glory shall
not descend after him.

49:18 Though while he lived he blessed his soul: and men will praise
thee, when thou doest well to thyself.

49:19 He shall go to the generation of his fathers; they shall never
see light.

49:20 Man that is in honour, and understandeth not, is like the beasts
that perish.



50:1 The mighty God, even the LORD, hath spoken, and called the earth
from the rising of the sun unto the going down thereof.

50:2 Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God hath shined.

50:3 Our God shall come, and shall not keep silence: a fire shall
devour before him, and it shall be very tempestuous round about him.

50:4 He shall call to the heavens from above, and to the earth, that
he may judge his people.

50:5 Gather my saints together unto me; those that have made a
covenant with me by sacrifice.

50:6 And the heavens shall declare his righteousness: for God is judge
himself. Selah.

50:7 Hear, O my people, and I will speak; O Israel, and I will testify
against thee: I am God, even thy God.

50:8 I will not reprove thee for thy sacrifices or thy burnt
offerings, to have been continually before me.

50:9 I will take no bullock out of thy house, nor he goats out of thy
folds.

50:10 For every beast of the forest is mine, and the cattle upon a
thousand hills.

50:11 I know all the fowls of the mountains: and the wild beasts of
the field are mine.

50:12 If I were hungry, I would not tell thee: for the world is mine,
and the fulness thereof.

50:13 Will I eat the flesh of bulls, or drink the blood of goats?

50:14 Offer unto God thanksgiving; and pay thy vows unto the most
High:

50:15 And call upon me in the day of trouble: I will deliver thee, and
thou shalt glorify me.

50:16 But unto the wicked God saith, What hast thou to do to declare
my statutes, or that thou shouldest take my covenant in thy mouth?

50:17 Seeing thou hatest instruction, and casteth my words behind
thee.

50:18 When thou sawest a thief, then thou consentedst with him, and
hast been partaker with adulterers.

50:19 Thou givest thy mouth to evil, and thy tongue frameth deceit.

50:20 Thou sittest and speakest against thy brother; thou slanderest
thine own mother's son.

50:21 These things hast thou done, and I kept silence; thou thoughtest
that I was altogether such an one as thyself: but I will reprove thee,
and set them in order before thine eyes.

50:22 Now consider this, ye that forget God, lest I tear you in
pieces, and there be none to deliver.

50:23 Whoso offereth praise glorifieth me: and to him that ordereth
his conversation aright will I shew the salvation of God.



51:1 Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy lovingkindness:
according unto the multitude of thy tender mercies blot out my
transgressions.

51:2 Wash me throughly from mine iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin.

51:3 For I acknowledge my transgressions: and my sin is ever before
me.

51:4 Against thee, thee only, have I sinned, and done this evil in thy
sight: that thou mightest be justified when thou speakest, and be
clear when thou judgest.

51:5 Behold, I was shapen in iniquity; and in sin did my mother
conceive me.

51:6 Behold, thou desirest truth in the inward parts: and in the
hidden part thou shalt make me to know wisdom.

51:7 Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean: wash me, and I shall
be whiter than snow.

51:8 Make me to hear joy and gladness; that the bones which thou hast
broken may rejoice.

51:9 Hide thy face from my sins, and blot out all mine iniquities.

51:10 Create in me a clean heart, O God; and renew a right spirit
within me.

51:11 Cast me not away from thy presence; and take not thy holy spirit
from me.

51:12 Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation; and uphold me with thy
free spirit.

51:13 Then will I teach transgressors thy ways; and sinners shall be
converted unto thee.

51:14 Deliver me from bloodguiltiness, O God, thou God of my
salvation: and my tongue shall sing aloud of thy righteousness.

51:15 O Lord, open thou my lips; and my mouth shall shew forth thy
praise.

51:16 For thou desirest not sacrifice; else would I give it: thou
delightest not in burnt offering.

51:17 The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit: a broken and a
contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise.

51:18 Do good in thy good pleasure unto Zion: build thou the walls of
Jerusalem.

51:19 Then shalt thou be pleased with the sacrifices of righteousness,
with burnt offering and whole burnt offering: then shall they offer
bullocks upon thine altar.



52:1 Why boastest thou thyself in mischief, O mighty man? the goodness
of God endureth continually.

52:2 The tongue deviseth mischiefs; like a sharp razor, working
deceitfully.

52:3 Thou lovest evil more than good; and lying rather than to speak
righteousness. Selah.

52:4 Thou lovest all devouring words, O thou deceitful tongue.

52:5 God shall likewise destroy thee for ever, he shall take thee
away, and pluck thee out of thy dwelling place, and root thee out of
the land of the living. Selah.

52:6 The righteous also shall see, and fear, and shall laugh at him:

52:7 Lo, this is the man that made not God his strength; but trusted
in the abundance of his riches, and strengthened himself in his
wickedness.

52:8 But I am like a green olive tree in the house of God: I trust in
the mercy of God for ever and ever.

52:9 I will praise thee for ever, because thou hast done it: and I
will wait on thy name; for it is good before thy saints.



53:1 The fool hath said in his heart, There is no God. Corrupt are
they, and have done abominable iniquity: there is none that doeth
good.

53:2 God looked down from heaven upon the children of men, to see if
there were any that did understand, that did seek God.

53:3 Every one of them is gone back: they are altogether become
filthy; there is none that doeth good, no, not one.

53:4 Have the workers of iniquity no knowledge? who eat up my people
as they eat bread: they have not called upon God.

53:5 There were they in great fear, where no fear was: for God hath
scattered the bones of him that encampeth against thee: thou hast put
them to shame, because God hath despised them.

53:6 Oh that the salvation of Israel were come out of Zion! When God
bringeth back the captivity of his people, Jacob shall rejoice, and
Israel shall be glad.



54:1 Save me, O God, by thy name, and judge me by thy strength.

54:2 Hear my prayer, O God; give ear to the words of my mouth.

54:3 For strangers are risen up against me, and oppressors seek after
my soul: they have not set God before them. Selah.

54:4 Behold, God is mine helper: the Lord is with them that uphold my
soul.

54:5 He shall reward evil unto mine enemies: cut them off in thy
truth.

54:6 I will freely sacrifice unto thee: I will praise thy name, O
LORD; for it is good.

54:7 For he hath delivered me out of all trouble: and mine eye hath
seen his desire upon mine enemies.



55:1 Give ear to my prayer, O God; and hide not thyself from my
supplication.

55:2 Attend unto me, and hear me: I mourn in my complaint, and make a
noise;

55:3 Because of the voice of the enemy, because of the oppression of
the wicked: for they cast iniquity upon me, and in wrath they hate me.

55:4 My heart is sore pained within me: and the terrors of death are
fallen upon me.

55:5 Fearfulness and trembling are come upon me, and horror hath
overwhelmed me.

55:6 And I said, Oh that I had wings like a dove! for then would I fly
away, and be at rest.

55:7 Lo, then would I wander far off, and remain in the wilderness.
Selah.

55:8 I would hasten my escape from the windy storm and tempest.

55:9 Destroy, O Lord, and divide their tongues: for I have seen
violence and strife in the city.

55:10 Day and night they go about it upon the walls thereof: mischief
also and sorrow are in the midst of it.

55:11 Wickedness is in the midst thereof: deceit and guile depart not
from her streets.

55:12 For it was not an enemy that reproached me; then I could have
borne it: neither was it he that hated me that did magnify himself
against me; then I would have hid myself from him:

55:13 But it was thou, a man mine equal, my guide, and mine
acquaintance.

55:14 We took sweet counsel together, and walked unto the house of God
in company.

55:15 Let death seize upon them, and let them go down quick into hell:
for wickedness is in their dwellings, and among them.

55:16 As for me, I will call upon God; and the LORD shall save me.

55:17 Evening, and morning, and at noon, will I pray, and cry aloud:
and he shall hear my voice.

55:18 He hath delivered my soul in peace from the battle that was
against me: for there were many with me.

55:19 God shall hear, and afflict them, even he that abideth of old.

Selah. Because they have no changes, therefore they fear not God.

55:20 He hath put forth his hands against such as be at peace with
him: he hath broken his covenant.

55:21 The words of his mouth were smoother than butter, but war was in
his heart: his words were softer than oil, yet were they drawn swords.

55:22 Cast thy burden upon the LORD, and he shall sustain thee: he
shall never suffer the righteous to be moved.

55:23 But thou, O God, shalt bring them down into the pit of
destruction: bloody and deceitful men shall not live out half their
days; but I will trust in thee.



56:1 Be merciful unto me, O God: for man would swallow me up; he
fighting daily oppresseth me.

56:2 Mine enemies would daily swallow me up: for they be many that
fight against me, O thou most High.

56:3 What time I am afraid, I will trust in thee.

56:4 In God I will praise his word, in God I have put my trust; I will
not fear what flesh can do unto me.

56:5 Every day they wrest my words: all their thoughts are against me
for evil.

56:6 They gather themselves together, they hide themselves, they mark
my steps, when they wait for my soul.

56:7 Shall they escape by iniquity? in thine anger cast down the
people, O God.

56:8 Thou tellest my wanderings: put thou my tears into thy bottle:
are they not in thy book?

56:9 When I cry unto thee, then shall mine enemies turn back: this I
know; for God is for me.

56:10 In God will I praise his word: in the LORD will I praise his
word.

56:11 In God have I put my trust: I will not be afraid what man can do
unto me.

56:12 Thy vows are upon me, O God: I will render praises unto thee.

56:13 For thou hast delivered my soul from death: wilt not thou
deliver my feet from falling, that I may walk before God in the light
of the living?



57:1 Be merciful unto me, O God, be merciful unto me: for my soul
trusteth in thee: yea, in the shadow of thy wings will I make my
refuge, until these calamities be overpast.

57:2 I will cry unto God most high; unto God that performeth all
things for me.

57:3 He shall send from heaven, and save me from the reproach of him
that would swallow me up. Selah. God shall send forth his mercy and
his truth.

57:4 My soul is among lions: and I lie even among them that are set on
fire, even the sons of men, whose teeth are spears and arrows, and
their tongue a sharp sword.

57:5 Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens; let thy glory be above
all the earth.

57:6 They have prepared a net for my steps; my soul is bowed down:
they have digged a pit before me, into the midst whereof they are
fallen themselves. Selah.

57:7 My heart is fixed, O God, my heart is fixed: I will sing and give
praise.

57:8 Awake up, my glory; awake, psaltery and harp: I myself will awake
early.

57:9 I will praise thee, O Lord, among the people: I will sing unto
thee among the nations.

57:10 For thy mercy is great unto the heavens, and thy truth unto the
clouds.

57:11 Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens: let thy glory be
above all the earth.



58:1 Do ye indeed speak righteousness, O congregation? do ye judge
uprightly, O ye sons of men?

58:2 Yea, in heart ye work wickedness; ye weigh the violence of your
hands in the earth.

58:3 The wicked are estranged from the womb: they go astray as soon as
they be born, speaking lies.

58:4 Their poison is like the poison of a serpent: they are like the
deaf adder that stoppeth her ear;

58:5 Which will not hearken to the voice of charmers, charming never
so wisely.

58:6 Break their teeth, O God, in their mouth: break out the great
teeth of the young lions, O LORD.

58:7 Let them melt away as waters which run continually: when he
bendeth his bow to shoot his arrows, let them be as cut in pieces.

58:8 As a snail which melteth, let every one of them pass away: like
the untimely birth of a woman, that they may not see the sun.

58:9 Before your pots can feel the thorns, he shall take them away as
with a whirlwind, both living, and in his wrath.

58:10 The righteous shall rejoice when he seeth the vengeance: he
shall wash his feet in the blood of the wicked.

58:11 So that a man shall say, Verily there is a reward for the
righteous: verily he is a God that judgeth in the earth.



59:1 Deliver me from mine enemies, O my God: defend me from them that
rise up against me.

59:2 Deliver me from the workers of iniquity, and save me from bloody
men.

59:3 For, lo, they lie in wait for my soul: the mighty are gathered
against me; not for my transgression, nor for my sin, O LORD.

59:4 They run and prepare themselves without my fault: awake to help
me, and behold.

59:5 Thou therefore, O LORD God of hosts, the God of Israel, awake to
visit all the heathen: be not merciful to any wicked transgressors.
Selah.

59:6 They return at evening: they make a noise like a dog, and go
round about the city.

59:7 Behold, they belch out with their mouth: swords are in their
lips: for who, say they, doth hear?

59:8 But thou, O LORD, shalt laugh at them; thou shalt have all the
heathen in derision.

59:9 Because of his strength will I wait upon thee: for God is my
defence.

59:10 The God of my mercy shall prevent me: God shall let me see my
desire upon mine enemies.

59:11 Slay them not, lest my people forget: scatter them by thy power;
and bring them down, O Lord our shield.

59:12 For the sin of their mouth and the words of their lips let them
even be taken in their pride: and for cursing and lying which they
speak.

59:13 Consume them in wrath, consume them, that they may not be: and
let them know that God ruleth in Jacob unto the ends of the earth.
Selah.

59:14 And at evening let them return; and let them make a noise like a
dog, and go round about the city.

59:15 Let them wander up and down for meat, and grudge if they be not
satisfied.

59:16 But I will sing of thy power; yea, I will sing aloud of thy
mercy in the morning: for thou hast been my defence and refuge in the
day of my trouble.

59:17 Unto thee, O my strength, will I sing: for God is my defence,
and the God of my mercy.



60:1 O God, thou hast cast us off, thou hast scattered us, thou hast
been displeased; O turn thyself to us again.

60:2 Thou hast made the earth to tremble; thou hast broken it: heal
the breaches thereof; for it shaketh.

60:3 Thou hast shewed thy people hard things: thou hast made us to
drink the wine of astonishment.

60:4 Thou hast given a banner to them that fear thee, that it may be
displayed because of the truth. Selah.

60:5 That thy beloved may be delivered; save with thy right hand, and
hear me.

60:6 God hath spoken in his holiness; I will rejoice, I will divide
Shechem, and mete out the valley of Succoth.

60:7 Gilead is mine, and Manasseh is mine; Ephraim also is the
strength of mine head; Judah is my lawgiver;

60:8 Moab is my washpot; over Edom will I cast out my shoe: Philistia,
triumph thou because of me.

60:9 Who will bring me into the strong city? who will lead me into
Edom?

60:10 Wilt not thou, O God, which hadst cast us off? and thou, O God,
which didst not go out with our armies?

60:11 Give us help from trouble: for vain is the help of man.

60:12 Through God we shall do valiantly: for he it is that shall tread
down our enemies.



61:1 Hear my cry, O God; attend unto my prayer.

61:2 From the end of the earth will I cry unto thee, when my heart is
overwhelmed: lead me to the rock that is higher than I.

61:3 For thou hast been a shelter for me, and a strong tower from the
enemy.

61:4 I will abide in thy tabernacle for ever: I will trust in the
covert of thy wings. Selah.

61:5 For thou, O God, hast heard my vows: thou hast given me the
heritage of those that fear thy name.

61:6 Thou wilt prolong the king's life: and his years as many
generations.

61:7 He shall abide before God for ever: O prepare mercy and truth,
which may preserve him.

61:8 So will I sing praise unto thy name for ever, that I may daily
perform my vows.



62:1 Truly my soul waiteth upon God: from him cometh my salvation.

62:2 He only is my rock and my salvation; he is my defence; I shall
not be greatly moved.

62:3 How long will ye imagine mischief against a man? ye shall be
slain all of you: as a bowing wall shall ye be, and as a tottering
fence.

62:4 They only consult to cast him down from his excellency: they
delight in lies: they bless with their mouth, but they curse inwardly.
Selah.

62:5 My soul, wait thou only upon God; for my expectation is from him.

62:6 He only is my rock and my salvation: he is my defence; I shall
not be moved.

62:7 In God is my salvation and my glory: the rock of my strength, and
my refuge, is in God.

62:8 Trust in him at all times; ye people, pour out your heart before
him: God is a refuge for us. Selah.

62:9 Surely men of low degree are vanity, and men of high degree are a
lie: to be laid in the balance, they are altogether lighter than
vanity.

62:10 Trust not in oppression, and become not vain in robbery: if
riches increase, set not your heart upon them.

62:11 God hath spoken once; twice have I heard this; that power
belongeth unto God.

62:12 Also unto thee, O Lord, belongeth mercy: for thou renderest to
every man according to his work.



63:1 O God, thou art my God; early will I seek thee: my soul thirsteth
for thee, my flesh longeth for thee in a dry and thirsty land, where
no water is;

63:2 To see thy power and thy glory, so as I have seen thee in the
sanctuary.

63:3 Because thy lovingkindness is better than life, my lips shall
praise thee.

63:4 Thus will I bless thee while I live: I will lift up my hands in
thy name.

63:5 My soul shall be satisfied as with marrow and fatness; and my
mouth shall praise thee with joyful lips:

63:6 When I remember thee upon my bed, and meditate on thee in the
night watches.

63:7 Because thou hast been my help, therefore in the shadow of thy
wings will I rejoice.

63:8 My soul followeth hard after thee: thy right hand upholdeth me.

63:9 But those that seek my soul, to destroy it, shall go into the
lower parts of the earth.

63:10 They shall fall by the sword: they shall be a portion for foxes.

63:11 But the king shall rejoice in God; every one that sweareth by
him shall glory: but the mouth of them that speak lies shall be
stopped.



64:1 Hear my voice, O God, in my prayer: preserve my life from fear of
the enemy.

64:2 Hide me from the secret counsel of the wicked; from the
insurrection of the workers of iniquity:

64:3 Who whet their tongue like a sword, and bend their bows to shoot
their arrows, even bitter words:

64:4 That they may shoot in secret at the perfect: suddenly do they
shoot at him, and fear not.

64:5 They encourage themselves in an evil matter: they commune of
laying snares privily; they say, Who shall see them?

64:6 They search out iniquities; they accomplish a diligent search:
both the inward thought of every one of them, and the heart, is deep.

64:7 But God shall shoot at them with an arrow; suddenly shall they be
wounded.

64:8 So they shall make their own tongue to fall upon themselves: all
that see them shall flee away.

64:9 And all men shall fear, and shall declare the work of God; for
they shall wisely consider of his doing.

64:10 The righteous shall be glad in the LORD, and shall trust in him;
and all the upright in heart shall glory.



65:1 Praise waiteth for thee, O God, in Sion: and unto thee shall the
vow be performed.

65:2 O thou that hearest prayer, unto thee shall all flesh come.

65:3 Iniquities prevail against me: as for our transgressions, thou
shalt purge them away.

65:4 Blessed is the man whom thou choosest, and causest to approach
unto thee, that he may dwell in thy courts: we shall be satisfied with
the goodness of thy house, even of thy holy temple.

65:5 By terrible things in righteousness wilt thou answer us, O God of
our salvation; who art the confidence of all the ends of the earth,
and of them that are afar off upon the sea:

65:6 Which by his strength setteth fast the mountains; being girded
with power:

65:7 Which stilleth the noise of the seas, the noise of their waves,
and the tumult of the people.

65:8 They also that dwell in the uttermost parts are afraid at thy
tokens: thou makest the outgoings of the morning and evening to
rejoice.

65:9 Thou visitest the earth, and waterest it: thou greatly enrichest
it with the river of God, which is full of water: thou preparest them
corn, when thou hast so provided for it.

65:10 Thou waterest the ridges thereof abundantly: thou settlest the
furrows thereof: thou makest it soft with showers: thou blessest the
springing thereof.

65:11 Thou crownest the year with thy goodness; and thy paths drop
fatness.

65:12 They drop upon the pastures of the wilderness: and the little
hills rejoice on every side.

65:13 The pastures are clothed with flocks; the valleys also are
covered over with corn; they shout for joy, they also sing.



66:1 Make a joyful noise unto God, all ye lands:

66:2 Sing forth the honour of his name: make his praise glorious.

66:3 Say unto God, How terrible art thou in thy works! through the
greatness of thy power shall thine enemies submit themselves unto
thee.

66:4 All the earth shall worship thee, and shall sing unto thee; they
shall sing to thy name. Selah.

66:5 Come and see the works of God: he is terrible in his doing toward
the children of men.

66:6 He turned the sea into dry land: they went through the flood on
foot: there did we rejoice in him.

66:7 He ruleth by his power for ever; his eyes behold the nations: let
not the rebellious exalt themselves. Selah.

66:8 O bless our God, ye people, and make the voice of his praise to
be heard:

66:9 Which holdeth our soul in life, and suffereth not our feet to be
moved.

66:10 For thou, O God, hast proved us: thou hast tried us, as silver
is tried.

66:11 Thou broughtest us into the net; thou laidst affliction upon our
loins.

66:12 Thou hast caused men to ride over our heads; we went through
fire and through water: but thou broughtest us out into a wealthy
place.

66:13 I will go into thy house with burnt offerings: I will pay thee
my vows,

66:14 Which my lips have uttered, and my mouth hath spoken, when I was
in trouble.

66:15 I will offer unto thee burnt sacrifices of fatlings, with the
incense of rams; I will offer bullocks with goats. Selah.

66:16 Come and hear, all ye that fear God, and I will declare what he
hath done for my soul.

66:17 I cried unto him with my mouth, and he was extolled with my
tongue.

66:18 If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me:

66:19 But verily God hath heard me; he hath attended to the voice of
my prayer.

66:20 Blessed be God, which hath not turned away my prayer, nor his
mercy from me.



67:1 God be merciful unto us, and bless us; and cause his face to
shine upon us; Selah.

67:2 That thy way may be known upon earth, thy saving health among all
nations.

67:3 Let the people praise thee, O God; let all the people praise
thee.

67:4 O let the nations be glad and sing for joy: for thou shalt judge
the people righteously, and govern the nations upon earth. Selah.

67:5 Let the people praise thee, O God; let all the people praise
thee.

67:6 Then shall the earth yield her increase; and God, even our own
God, shall bless us.

67:7 God shall bless us; and all the ends of the earth shall fear him.



68:1 Let God arise, let his enemies be scattered: let them also that
hate him flee before him.

68:2 As smoke is driven away, so drive them away: as wax melteth
before the fire, so let the wicked perish at the presence of God.

68:3 But let the righteous be glad; let them rejoice before God: yea,
let them exceedingly rejoice.

68:4 Sing unto God, sing praises to his name: extol him that rideth
upon the heavens by his name JAH, and rejoice before him.

68:5 A father of the fatherless, and a judge of the widows, is God in
his holy habitation.

68:6 God setteth the solitary in families: he bringeth out those which
are bound with chains: but the rebellious dwell in a dry land.

68:7 O God, when thou wentest forth before thy people, when thou didst
march through the wilderness; Selah:

68:8 The earth shook, the heavens also dropped at the presence of God:
even Sinai itself was moved at the presence of God, the God of Israel.

68:9 Thou, O God, didst send a plentiful rain, whereby thou didst
confirm thine inheritance, when it was weary.

68:10 Thy congregation hath dwelt therein: thou, O God, hast prepared
of thy goodness for the poor.

68:11 The Lord gave the word: great was the company of those that
published it.

68:12 Kings of armies did flee apace: and she that tarried at home
divided the spoil.

68:13 Though ye have lien among the pots, yet shall ye be as the wings
of a dove covered with silver, and her feathers with yellow gold.

68:14 When the Almighty scattered kings in it, it was white as snow in
Salmon.

68:15 The hill of God is as the hill of Bashan; an high hill as the
hill of Bashan.

68:16 Why leap ye, ye high hills? this is the hill which God desireth
to dwell in; yea, the LORD will dwell in it for ever.

68:17 The chariots of God are twenty thousand, even thousands of
angels: the Lord is among them, as in Sinai, in the holy place.

68:18 Thou hast ascended on high, thou hast led captivity captive:
thou hast received gifts for men; yea, for the rebellious also, that
