the LORD God might dwell among them.

68:19 Blessed be the Lord, who daily loadeth us with benefits, even
the God of our salvation. Selah.

68:20 He that is our God is the God of salvation; and unto GOD the
Lord belong the issues from death.

68:21 But God shall wound the head of his enemies, and the hairy scalp
of such an one as goeth on still in his trespasses.

68:22 The Lord said, I will bring again from Bashan, I will bring my
people again from the depths of the sea:

68:23 That thy foot may be dipped in the blood of thine enemies, and
the tongue of thy dogs in the same.

68:24 They have seen thy goings, O God; even the goings of my God, my
King, in the sanctuary.

68:25 The singers went before, the players on instruments followed
after; among them were the damsels playing with timbrels.

68:26 Bless ye God in the congregations, even the Lord, from the
fountain of Israel.

68:27 There is little Benjamin with their ruler, the princes of Judah
and their council, the princes of Zebulun, and the princes of
Naphtali.

68:28 Thy God hath commanded thy strength: strengthen, O God, that
which thou hast wrought for us.

68:29 Because of thy temple at Jerusalem shall kings bring presents
unto thee.

68:30 Rebuke the company of spearmen, the multitude of the bulls, with
the calves of the people, till every one submit himself with pieces of
silver: scatter thou the people that delight in war.

68:31 Princes shall come out of Egypt; Ethiopia shall soon stretch out
her hands unto God.

68:32 Sing unto God, ye kingdoms of the earth; O sing praises unto the
Lord; Selah:

68:33 To him that rideth upon the heavens of heavens, which were of
old; lo, he doth send out his voice, and that a mighty voice.

68:34 Ascribe ye strength unto God: his excellency is over Israel, and
his strength is in the clouds.

68:35 O God, thou art terrible out of thy holy places: the God of
Israel is he that giveth strength and power unto his people. Blessed
be God.



69:1 Save me, O God; for the waters are come in unto my soul.

69:2 I sink in deep mire, where there is no standing: I am come into
deep waters, where the floods overflow me.

69:3 I am weary of my crying: my throat is dried: mine eyes fail while
I wait for my God.

69:4 They that hate me without a cause are more than the hairs of mine
head: they that would destroy me, being mine enemies wrongfully, are
mighty: then I restored that which I took not away.

69:5 O God, thou knowest my foolishness; and my sins are not hid from
thee.

69:6 Let not them that wait on thee, O Lord GOD of hosts, be ashamed
for my sake: let not those that seek thee be confounded for my sake, O
God of Israel.

69:7 Because for thy sake I have borne reproach; shame hath covered my
face.

69:8 I am become a stranger unto my brethren, and an alien unto my
mother's children.

69:9 For the zeal of thine house hath eaten me up; and the reproaches
of them that reproached thee are fallen upon me.

69:10 When I wept, and chastened my soul with fasting, that was to my
reproach.

69:11 I made sackcloth also my garment; and I became a proverb to
them.

69:12 They that sit in the gate speak against me; and I was the song
of the drunkards.

69:13 But as for me, my prayer is unto thee, O LORD, in an acceptable
time: O God, in the multitude of thy mercy hear me, in the truth of
thy salvation.

69:14 Deliver me out of the mire, and let me not sink: let me be
delivered from them that hate me, and out of the deep waters.

69:15 Let not the waterflood overflow me, neither let the deep swallow
me up, and let not the pit shut her mouth upon me.

69:16 Hear me, O LORD; for thy lovingkindness is good: turn unto me
according to the multitude of thy tender mercies.

69:17 And hide not thy face from thy servant; for I am in trouble:
hear me speedily.

69:18 Draw nigh unto my soul, and redeem it: deliver me because of
mine enemies.

69:19 Thou hast known my reproach, and my shame, and my dishonour:
mine adversaries are all before thee.

69:20 Reproach hath broken my heart; and I am full of heaviness: and I
looked for some to take pity, but there was none; and for comforters,
but I found none.

69:21 They gave me also gall for my meat; and in my thirst they gave
me vinegar to drink.

69:22 Let their table become a snare before them: and that which
should have been for their welfare, let it become a trap.

69:23 Let their eyes be darkened, that they see not; and make their
loins continually to shake.

69:24 Pour out thine indignation upon them, and let thy wrathful anger
take hold of them.

69:25 Let their habitation be desolate; and let none dwell in their
tents.

69:26 For they persecute him whom thou hast smitten; and they talk to
the grief of those whom thou hast wounded.

69:27 Add iniquity unto their iniquity: and let them not come into thy
righteousness.

69:28 Let them be blotted out of the book of the living, and not be
written with the righteous.

69:29 But I am poor and sorrowful: let thy salvation, O God, set me up
on high.

69:30 I will praise the name of God with a song, and will magnify him
with thanksgiving.

69:31 This also shall please the LORD better than an ox or bullock
that hath horns and hoofs.

69:32 The humble shall see this, and be glad: and your heart shall
live that seek God.

69:33 For the LORD heareth the poor, and despiseth not his prisoners.

69:34 Let the heaven and earth praise him, the seas, and every thing
that moveth therein.

69:35 For God will save Zion, and will build the cities of Judah: that
they may dwell there, and have it in possession.

69:36 The seed also of his servants shall inherit it: and they that
love his name shall dwell therein.



70:1 MAKE HASTE, O GOD, TO DELIVER ME; MAKE HASTE TO HELP ME, O LORD.

70:2 Let them be ashamed and confounded that seek after my soul: let
them be turned backward, and put to confusion, that desire my hurt.

70:3 Let them be turned back for a reward of their shame that say,
Aha, aha.

70:4 Let all those that seek thee rejoice and be glad in thee: and let
such as love thy salvation say continually, Let God be magnified.

70:5 But I am poor and needy: make haste unto me, O God: thou art my
help and my deliverer; O LORD, make no tarrying.



71:1 In thee, O LORD, do I put my trust: let me never be put to
confusion.

71:2 Deliver me in thy righteousness, and cause me to escape: incline
thine ear unto me, and save me.

71:3 Be thou my strong habitation, whereunto I may continually resort:
thou hast given commandment to save me; for thou art my rock and my
fortress.

71:4 Deliver me, O my God, out of the hand of the wicked, out of the
hand of the unrighteous and cruel man.

71:5 For thou art my hope, O Lord GOD: thou art my trust from my
youth.

71:6 By thee have I been holden up from the womb: thou art he that
took me out of my mother's bowels: my praise shall be continually of
thee.

71:7 I am as a wonder unto many; but thou art my strong refuge.

71:8 Let my mouth be filled with thy praise and with thy honour all
the day.

71:9 Cast me not off in the time of old age; forsake me not when my
strength faileth.

71:10 For mine enemies speak against me; and they that lay wait for my
soul take counsel together,

71:11 Saying, God hath forsaken him: persecute and take him; for there
is none to deliver him.

71:12 O God, be not far from me: O my God, make haste for my help.

71:13 Let them be confounded and consumed that are adversaries to my
soul; let them be covered with reproach and dishonour that seek my
hurt.

71:14 But I will hope continually, and will yet praise thee more and
more.

71:15 My mouth shall shew forth thy righteousness and thy salvation
all the day; for I know not the numbers thereof.

71:16 I will go in the strength of the Lord GOD: I will make mention
of thy righteousness, even of thine only.

71:17 O God, thou hast taught me from my youth: and hitherto have I
declared thy wondrous works.

71:18 Now also when I am old and greyheaded, O God, forsake me not;
until I have shewed thy strength unto this generation, and thy power
to every one that is to come.

71:19 Thy righteousness also, O God, is very high, who hast done great
things: O God, who is like unto thee!

71:20 Thou, which hast shewed me great and sore troubles, shalt
quicken me again, and shalt bring me up again from the depths of the
earth.

71:21 Thou shalt increase my greatness, and comfort me on every side.

71:22 I will also praise thee with the psaltery, even thy truth, O my
God: unto thee will I sing with the harp, O thou Holy One of Israel.

71:23 My lips shall greatly rejoice when I sing unto thee; and my
soul, which thou hast redeemed.

71:24 My tongue also shall talk of thy righteousness all the day long:
for they are confounded, for they are brought unto shame, that seek my
hurt.



72:1 Give the king thy judgments, O God, and thy righteousness unto
the king's son.

72:2 He shall judge thy people with righteousness, and thy poor with
judgment.

72:3 The mountains shall bring peace to the people, and the little
hills, by righteousness.

72:4 He shall judge the poor of the people, he shall save the children
of the needy, and shall break in pieces the oppressor.

72:5 They shall fear thee as long as the sun and moon endure,
throughout all generations.

72:6 He shall come down like rain upon the mown grass: as showers that
water the earth.

72:7 In his days shall the righteous flourish; and abundance of peace
so long as the moon endureth.

72:8 He shall have dominion also from sea to sea, and from the river
unto the ends of the earth.

72:9 They that dwell in the wilderness shall bow before him; and his
enemies shall lick the dust.

72:10 The kings of Tarshish and of the isles shall bring presents: the
kings of Sheba and Seba shall offer gifts.

72:11 Yea, all kings shall fall down before him: all nations shall
serve him.

72:12 For he shall deliver the needy when he crieth; the poor also,
and him that hath no helper.

72:13 He shall spare the poor and needy, and shall save the souls of
the needy.

72:14 He shall redeem their soul from deceit and violence: and
precious shall their blood be in his sight.

72:15 And he shall live, and to him shall be given of the gold of
Sheba: prayer also shall be made for him continually; and daily shall
he be praised.

72:16 There shall be an handful of corn in the earth upon the top of
the mountains; the fruit thereof shall shake like Lebanon: and they of
the city shall flourish like grass of the earth.

72:17 His name shall endure for ever: his name shall be continued as
long as the sun: and men shall be blessed in him: all nations shall
call him blessed.

72:18 Blessed be the LORD God, the God of Israel, who only doeth
wondrous things.

72:19 And blessed be his glorious name for ever: and let the whole
earth be filled with his glory; Amen, and Amen.

72:20 The prayers of David the son of Jesse are ended.



73:1 Truly God is good to Israel, even to such as are of a clean
heart.

73:2 But as for me, my feet were almost gone; my steps had well nigh
slipped.

73:3 For I was envious at the foolish, when I saw the prosperity of
the wicked.

73:4 For there are no bands in their death: but their strength is
firm.

73:5 They are not in trouble as other men; neither are they plagued
like other men.

73:6 Therefore pride compasseth them about as a chain; violence
covereth them as a garment.

73:7 Their eyes stand out with fatness: they have more than heart
could wish.

73:8 They are corrupt, and speak wickedly concerning oppression: they
speak loftily.

73:9 They set their mouth against the heavens, and their tongue
walketh through the earth.

73:10 Therefore his people return hither: and waters of a full cup are
wrung out to them.

73:11 And they say, How doth God know? and is there knowledge in the
most High?

73:12 Behold, these are the ungodly, who prosper in the world; they
increase in riches.

73:13 Verily I have cleansed my heart in vain, and washed my hands in
innocency.

73:14 For all the day long have I been plagued, and chastened every
morning.

73:15 If I say, I will speak thus; behold, I should offend against the
generation of thy children.

73:16 When I thought to know this, it was too painful for me;

73:17 Until I went into the sanctuary of God; then understood I their
end.

73:18 Surely thou didst set them in slippery places: thou castedst
them down into destruction.

73:19 How are they brought into desolation, as in a moment! they are
utterly consumed with terrors.

73:20 As a dream when one awaketh; so, O Lord, when thou awakest, thou
shalt despise their image.

73:21 Thus my heart was grieved, and I was pricked in my reins.

73:22 So foolish was I, and ignorant: I was as a beast before thee.

73:23 Nevertheless I am continually with thee: thou hast holden me by
my right hand.

73:24 Thou shalt guide me with thy counsel, and afterward receive me
to glory.

73:25 Whom have I in heaven but thee? and there is none upon earth
that I desire beside thee.

73:26 My flesh and my heart faileth: but God is the strength of my
heart, and my portion for ever.

73:27 For, lo, they that are far from thee shall perish: thou hast
destroyed all them that go a whoring from thee.

73:28 But it is good for me to draw near to God: I have put my trust
in the Lord GOD, that I may declare all thy works.



74:1 O God, why hast thou cast us off for ever? why doth thine anger
smoke against the sheep of thy pasture?

74:2 Remember thy congregation, which thou hast purchased of old; the
rod of thine inheritance, which thou hast redeemed; this mount Zion,
wherein thou hast dwelt.

74:3 Lift up thy feet unto the perpetual desolations; even all that
the enemy hath done wickedly in the sanctuary.

74:4 Thine enemies roar in the midst of thy congregations; they set up
their ensigns for signs.

74:5 A man was famous according as he had lifted up axes upon the
thick trees.

74:6 But now they break down the carved work thereof at once with axes
and hammers.

74:7 They have cast fire into thy sanctuary, they have defiled by
casting down the dwelling place of thy name to the ground.

74:8 They said in their hearts, Let us destroy them together: they
have burned up all the synagogues of God in the land.

74:9 We see not our signs: there is no more any prophet: neither is
there among us any that knoweth how long.

74:10 O God, how long shall the adversary reproach? shall the enemy
blaspheme thy name for ever?

74:11 Why withdrawest thou thy hand, even thy right hand? pluck it out
of thy bosom.

74:12 For God is my King of old, working salvation in the midst of the
earth.

74:13 Thou didst divide the sea by thy strength: thou brakest the
heads of the dragons in the waters.

74:14 Thou brakest the heads of leviathan in pieces, and gavest him to
be meat to the people inhabiting the wilderness.

74:15 Thou didst cleave the fountain and the flood: thou driedst up
mighty rivers.

74:16 The day is thine, the night also is thine: thou hast prepared
the light and the sun.

74:17 Thou hast set all the borders of the earth: thou hast made
summer and winter.

74:18 Remember this, that the enemy hath reproached, O LORD, and that
the foolish people have blasphemed thy name.

74:19 O deliver not the soul of thy turtledove unto the multitude of
the wicked: forget not the congregation of thy poor for ever.

74:20 Have respect unto the covenant: for the dark places of the earth
are full of the habitations of cruelty.

74:21 O let not the oppressed return ashamed: let the poor and needy
praise thy name.

74:22 Arise, O God, plead thine own cause: remember how the foolish
man reproacheth thee daily.

74:23 Forget not the voice of thine enemies: the tumult of those that
rise up against thee increaseth continually.



75:1 Unto thee, O God, do we give thanks, unto thee do we give thanks:
for that thy name is near thy wondrous works declare.

75:2 When I shall receive the congregation I will judge uprightly.

75:3 The earth and all the inhabitants thereof are dissolved: I bear
up the pillars of it. Selah.

75:4 I said unto the fools, Deal not foolishly: and to the wicked,
Lift not up the horn:

75:5 Lift not up your horn on high: speak not with a stiff neck.

75:6 For promotion cometh neither from the east, nor from the west,
nor from the south.

75:7 But God is the judge: he putteth down one, and setteth up
another.

75:8 For in the hand of the LORD there is a cup, and the wine is red;
it is full of mixture; and he poureth out of the same: but the dregs
thereof, all the wicked of the earth shall wring them out, and drink
them.

75:9 But I will declare for ever; I will sing praises to the God of
Jacob.

75:10 All the horns of the wicked also will I cut off; but the horns
of the righteous shall be exalted.



76:1 In Judah is God known: his name is great in Israel.

76:2 In Salem also is his tabernacle, and his dwelling place in Zion.

76:3 There brake he the arrows of the bow, the shield, and the sword,
and the battle. Selah.

76:4 Thou art more glorious and excellent than the mountains of prey.

76:5 The stouthearted are spoiled, they have slept their sleep: and
none of the men of might have found their hands.

76:6 At thy rebuke, O God of Jacob, both the chariot and horse are
cast into a dead sleep.

76:7 Thou, even thou, art to be feared: and who may stand in thy sight
when once thou art angry?

76:8 Thou didst cause judgment to be heard from heaven; the earth
feared, and was still,

76:9 When God arose to judgment, to save all the meek of the earth.
Selah.

76:10 Surely the wrath of man shall praise thee: the remainder of
wrath shalt thou restrain.

76:11 Vow, and pay unto the LORD your God: let all that be round about
him bring presents unto him that ought to be feared.

76:12 He shall cut off the spirit of princes: he is terrible to the
kings of the earth.



77:1 I cried unto God with my voice, even unto God with my voice; and
he gave ear unto me.

77:2 In the day of my trouble I sought the Lord: my sore ran in the
night, and ceased not: my soul refused to be comforted.

77:3 I remembered God, and was troubled: I complained, and my spirit
was overwhelmed. Selah.

77:4 Thou holdest mine eyes waking: I am so troubled that I cannot
speak.

77:5 I have considered the days of old, the years of ancient times.

77:6 I call to remembrance my song in the night: I commune with mine
own heart: and my spirit made diligent search.

77:7 Will the Lord cast off for ever? and will he be favourable no
more?

77:8 Is his mercy clean gone for ever? doth his promise fail for
evermore?

77:9 Hath God forgotten to be gracious? hath he in anger shut up his
tender mercies? Selah.

77:10 And I said, This is my infirmity: but I will remember the years
of the right hand of the most High.

77:11 I will remember the works of the LORD: surely I will remember
thy wonders of old.

77:12 I will meditate also of all thy work, and talk of thy doings.

77:13 Thy way, O God, is in the sanctuary: who is so great a God as
our God?

77:14 Thou art the God that doest wonders: thou hast declared thy
strength among the people.

77:15 Thou hast with thine arm redeemed thy people, the sons of Jacob
and Joseph. Selah.

77:16 The waters saw thee, O God, the waters saw thee; they were
afraid: the depths also were troubled.

77:17 The clouds poured out water: the skies sent out a sound: thine
arrows also went abroad.

77:18 The voice of thy thunder was in the heaven: the lightnings
lightened the world: the earth trembled and shook.

77:19 Thy way is in the sea, and thy path in the great waters, and thy
footsteps are not known.

77:20 Thou leddest thy people like a flock by the hand of Moses and
Aaron.



78:1 Give ear, O my people, to my law: incline your ears to the words
of my mouth.

78:2 I will open my mouth in a parable: I will utter dark sayings of
old:

78:3 Which we have heard and known, and our fathers have told us.

78:4 We will not hide them from their children, shewing to the
generation to come the praises of the LORD, and his strength, and his
wonderful works that he hath done.

78:5 For he established a testimony in Jacob, and appointed a law in
Israel, which he commanded our fathers, that they should make them
known to their children:

78:6 That the generation to come might know them, even the children
which should be born; who should arise and declare them to their
children:

78:7 That they might set their hope in God, and not forget the works
of God, but keep his commandments:

78:8 And might not be as their fathers, a stubborn and rebellious
generation; a generation that set not their heart aright, and whose
spirit was not stedfast with God.

78:9 The children of Ephraim, being armed, and carrying bows, turned
back in the day of battle.

78:10 They kept not the covenant of God, and refused to walk in his
law;

78:11 And forgat his works, and his wonders that he had shewed them.

78:12 Marvellous things did he in the sight of their fathers, in the
land of Egypt, in the field of Zoan.

78:13 He divided the sea, and caused them to pass through; and he made
the waters to stand as an heap.

78:14 In the daytime also he led them with a cloud, and all the night
with a light of fire.

78:15 He clave the rocks in the wilderness, and gave them drink as out
of the great depths.

78:16 He brought streams also out of the rock, and caused waters to
run down like rivers.

78:17 And they sinned yet more against him by provoking the most High
in the wilderness.

78:18 And they tempted God in their heart by asking meat for their
lust.

78:19 Yea, they spake against God; they said, Can God furnish a table
in the wilderness?

78:20 Behold, he smote the rock, that the waters gushed out, and the
streams overflowed; can he give bread also? can he provide flesh for
his people?

78:21 Therefore the LORD heard this, and was wroth: so a fire was
kindled against Jacob, and anger also came up against Israel;

78:22 Because they believed not in God, and trusted not in his
salvation:

78:23 Though he had commanded the clouds from above, and opened the
doors of heaven,

78:24 And had rained down manna upon them to eat, and had given them
of the corn of heaven.

78:25 Man did eat angels' food: he sent them meat to the full.

78:26 He caused an east wind to blow in the heaven: and by his power
he brought in the south wind.

78:27 He rained flesh also upon them as dust, and feathered fowls like
as the sand of the sea:

78:28 And he let it fall in the midst of their camp, round about their
habitations.

78:29 So they did eat, and were well filled: for he gave them their
own desire;

78:30 They were not estranged from their lust. But while their meat
was yet in their mouths,

78:31 The wrath of God came upon them, and slew the fattest of them,
and smote down the chosen men of Israel.

78:32 For all this they sinned still, and believed not for his
wondrous works.

78:33 Therefore their days did he consume in vanity, and their years
in trouble.

78:34 When he slew them, then they sought him: and they returned and
enquired early after God.

78:35 And they remembered that God was their rock, and the high God
their redeemer.

78:36 Nevertheless they did flatter him with their mouth, and they
lied unto him with their tongues.

78:37 For their heart was not right with him, neither were they
stedfast in his covenant.

78:38 But he, being full of compassion, forgave their iniquity, and
destroyed them not: yea, many a time turned he his anger away, and did
not stir up all his wrath.

78:39 For he remembered that they were but flesh; a wind that passeth
away, and cometh not again.

78:40 How oft did they provoke him in the wilderness, and grieve him
in the desert!

78:41 Yea, they turned back and tempted God, and limited the Holy One
of Israel.

78:42 They remembered not his hand, nor the day when he delivered them
from the enemy.

78:43 How he had wrought his signs in Egypt, and his wonders in the
field of Zoan.

78:44 And had turned their rivers into blood; and their floods, that
they could not drink.

78:45 He sent divers sorts of flies among them, which devoured them;
and frogs, which destroyed them.

78:46 He gave also their increase unto the caterpiller, and their
labour unto the locust.

78:47 He destroyed their vines with hail, and their sycomore trees
with frost.

78:48 He gave up their cattle also to the hail, and their flocks to
hot thunderbolts.

78:49 He cast upon them the fierceness of his anger, wrath, and
indignation, and trouble, by sending evil angels among them.

78:50 He made a way to his anger; he spared not their soul from death,
but gave their life over to the pestilence;

78:51 And smote all the firstborn in Egypt; the chief of their
strength in the tabernacles of Ham:

78:52 But made his own people to go forth like sheep, and guided them
in the wilderness like a flock.

78:53 And he led them on safely, so that they feared not: but the sea
overwhelmed their enemies.

78:54 And he brought them to the border of his sanctuary, even to this
mountain, which his right hand had purchased.

78:55 He cast out the heathen also before them, and divided them an
inheritance by line, and made the tribes of Israel to dwell in their
tents.

78:56 Yet they tempted and provoked the most high God, and kept not
his testimonies:

78:57 But turned back, and dealt unfaithfully like their fathers: they
were turned aside like a deceitful bow.

78:58 For they provoked him to anger with their high places, and moved
him to jealousy with their graven images.

78:59 When God heard this, he was wroth, and greatly abhorred Israel:

78:60 So that he forsook the tabernacle of Shiloh, the tent which he
placed among men;

78:61 And delivered his strength into captivity, and his glory into
the enemy's hand.

78:62 He gave his people over also unto the sword; and was wroth with
his inheritance.

78:63 The fire consumed their young men; and their maidens were not
given to marriage.

78:64 Their priests fell by the sword; and their widows made no
lamentation.

78:65 Then the LORD awaked as one out of sleep, and like a mighty man
that shouteth by reason of wine.

78:66 And he smote his enemies in the hinder parts: he put them to a
perpetual reproach.

78:67 Moreover he refused the tabernacle of Joseph, and chose not the
tribe of Ephraim:

78:68 But chose the tribe of Judah, the mount Zion which he loved.

78:69 And he built his sanctuary like high palaces, like the earth
which he hath established for ever.

78:70 He chose David also his servant, and took him from the
sheepfolds:

78:71 From following the ewes great with young he brought him to feed
Jacob his people, and Israel his inheritance.

78:72 So he fed them according to the integrity of his heart; and
guided them by the skilfulness of his hands.



79:1 O God, the heathen are come into thine inheritance; thy holy
temple have they defiled; they have laid Jerusalem on heaps.

79:2 The dead bodies of thy servants have they given to be meat unto
the fowls of the heaven, the flesh of thy saints unto the beasts of
the earth.

79:3 Their blood have they shed like water round about Jerusalem; and
there was none to bury them.

79:4 We are become a reproach to our neighbours, a scorn and derision
to them that are round about us.

79:5 How long, LORD? wilt thou be angry for ever? shall thy jealousy
burn like fire?

79:6 Pour out thy wrath upon the heathen that have not known thee, and
upon the kingdoms that have not called upon thy name.

79:7 For they have devoured Jacob, and laid waste his dwelling place.

79:8 O remember not against us former iniquities: let thy tender
mercies speedily prevent us: for we are brought very low.

79:9 Help us, O God of our salvation, for the glory of thy name: and
deliver us, and purge away our sins, for thy name's sake.

79:10 Wherefore should the heathen say, Where is their God? let him be
known among the heathen in our sight by the revenging of the blood of
thy servants which is shed.

79:11 Let the sighing of the prisoner come before thee; according to
the greatness of thy power preserve thou those that are appointed to
die;

79:12 And render unto our neighbours sevenfold into their bosom their
reproach, wherewith they have reproached thee, O Lord.

79:13 So we thy people and sheep of thy pasture will give thee thanks
for ever: we will shew forth thy praise to all generations.



80:1 Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel, thou that leadest Joseph like a
flock; thou that dwellest between the cherubims, shine forth.

80:2 Before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh stir up thy strength,
and come and save us.

80:3 Turn us again, O God, and cause thy face to shine; and we shall
be saved.

80:4 O LORD God of hosts, how long wilt thou be angry against the
prayer of thy people?

80:5 Thou feedest them with the bread of tears; and givest them tears
to drink in great measure.

80:6 Thou makest us a strife unto our neighbours: and our enemies
laugh among themselves.

80:7 Turn us again, O God of hosts, and cause thy face to shine; and
we shall be saved.

80:8 Thou hast brought a vine out of Egypt: thou hast cast out the
heathen, and planted it.

80:9 Thou preparedst room before it, and didst cause it to take deep
root, and it filled the land.

80:10 The hills were covered with the shadow of it, and the boughs
thereof were like the goodly cedars.

80:11 She sent out her boughs unto the sea, and her branches unto the
river.

80:12 Why hast thou then broken down her hedges, so that all they
which pass by the way do pluck her?

80:13 The boar out of the wood doth waste it, and the wild beast of
the field doth devour it.

80:14 Return, we beseech thee, O God of hosts: look down from heaven,
and behold, and visit this vine;

80:15 And the vineyard which thy right hand hath planted, and the
branch that thou madest strong for thyself.

80:16 It is burned with fire, it is cut down: they perish at the
rebuke of thy countenance.

80:17 Let thy hand be upon the man of thy right hand, upon the son of
man whom thou madest strong for thyself.

80:18 So will not we go back from thee: quicken us, and we will call
upon thy name.

80:19 Turn us again, O LORD God of hosts, cause thy face to shine; and
we shall be saved.



81:1 Sing aloud unto God our strength: make a joyful noise unto the
God of Jacob.

81:2 Take a psalm, and bring hither the timbrel, the pleasant harp
with the psaltery.

81:3 Blow up the trumpet in the new moon, in the time appointed, on
our solemn feast day.

81:4 For this was a statute for Israel, and a law of the God of Jacob.

81:5 This he ordained in Joseph for a testimony, when he went out
through the land of Egypt: where I heard a language that I understood
not.

81:6 I removed his shoulder from the burden: his hands were delivered
from the pots.

81:7 Thou calledst in trouble, and I delivered thee; I answered thee
in the secret place of thunder: I proved thee at the waters of
Meribah.

Selah.

81:8 Hear, O my people, and I will testify unto thee: O Israel, if
thou wilt hearken unto me;

81:9 There shall no strange god be in thee; neither shalt thou worship
any strange god.

81:10 I am the LORD thy God, which brought thee out of the land of
Egypt: open thy mouth wide, and I will fill it.

81:11 But my people would not hearken to my voice; and Israel would
none of me.

81:12 So I gave them up unto their own hearts' lust: and they walked
in their own counsels.

81:13 Oh that my people had hearkened unto me, and Israel had walked
in my ways!

81:14 I should soon have subdued their enemies, and turned my hand
against their adversaries.

81:15 The haters of the LORD should have submitted themselves unto
him: but their time should have endured for ever.

81:16 He should have fed them also with the finest of the wheat: and
with honey out of the rock should I have satisfied thee.



82:1 God standeth in the congregation of the mighty; he judgeth among
the gods.

82:2 How long will ye judge unjustly, and accept the persons of the
wicked? Selah.

82:3 Defend the poor and fatherless: do justice to the afflicted and
needy.

82:4 Deliver the poor and needy: rid them out of the hand of the
wicked.

82:5 They know not, neither will they understand; they walk on in
darkness: all the foundations of the earth are out of course.

82:6 I have said, Ye are gods; and all of you are children of the most
